While it's great that there's
sentiment lexicons available, for
lots of other purposes, we like to
build our own sentiment lexicon.
And the way we do this is often
by semi-supervised learning.
And the idea of semi-supervised
learning is we have some
small amount of information.
Maybe we have a few labeled examples or
maybe we have a few hand built patterns.
And from that set of data we'd like
to bootstrap a complete lexicon.
And we might want to do learning of
lexicons instead of taking an online
lexicon if we're looking at a particular
domain that maybe doesn't match
the domain of the lexicon that was built,
or we're trying to do a particular task.
Or maybe we just think that our
online lexicons might not have enough
words that are relevant to
the topic we're looking at.
One of the earliest ways of inducing this
kind of sentiment lexicon was proposed
in 1997 by Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown.
And I'm going to show you this because,
although the paper is old,
this intuition is included in almost
all modern ways of doing this
semi-supervised learning
of getting a lexicon.
And their intuition very simple is that
two adjectives if they're conjoined by
the word and
they probably have the same polarity and
if they're conjoined by the word but,
they don't.
So if you see a very high frequency
of fair and legitimate or corrupt and
brutal probably fair and
legitimate are both on the same polarity.
So we might suspect that fair and
brutal are just less likely to
occur on the web or in some corpus.
So if we see a lot of
something occurring with and,
maybe the two are likely
to have the same sentiment.
But if we see two words linked by but,
they probably have different sentiments.
So fair but brutal is more likely
to occur than fair and brutal.
And here's they use this intuition.
They first labeled by hand
a seed set of 1300 adjectives.
And so they had about a similar number
of positive and negative adjectives.
So central, clever, or
famous, or thriving.
And negative adjectives like ignorant or
listless or unresolved.
And now from the seed set,
they expand that to any adjective that's
conjoined with a word in their scene set.
So for example, we can go to Google and
we can type in,
was nice and, and
look at what words occur next.
And what do we see after, was nice and,
well we see, was nice and helpful.
So that tells us that nice, and helpful
are likely to have the same sentiment.
And here we see nice and classy.
So that tells us that nice and
classy might have the same sentiment.
And we can do that for all sorts of words
that occur conjoined with our seed set.
And we take any word that occurs
frequently enough in the right conjunction
with our seed set words.
And now we can build
from that a classifier.
And the job of the classifier
is just to assign for
each pair of words,
how similar the two words are.
And so we can give the classifier
the count of the two words occurring with
an and in between them, and a count
of the two words occurring with a but
in between them.
And the classifier can learn that nice and
helpful are somewhat similar, nice and
fair are very similar, fair and
corrupt are very dissimilar,
marked them in red with a dotted line.
Because maybe but occurs much more
often between these two, and, and
occurs more often between these two,
and so on.
So we can get between any pair of words
a number that indicates similarity.
And now, we can just cluster the graph.
And use any kind of clustering
algorithm and we get for
the words that tend to be linked together,
helpful and nice, and fair and class,
will get that these are linked together,
and brutal, and
corrupt, and
irrational are linked together.
And we can get our
output polarity lexicon.
And here I've shown you
an output polarity lexicon.
And of course it will have
some mistakes in it, so
see if you can find
the mistakes in this lexicon.
Here are some of the mistakes.
So we have disturbing as a positive word,
or
strange as a positive word, or
pleasant as a negative word.
So of course there's going to be errors
in any of these kind of automatic,
semi-supervised algorithms.
So while the and McEwan algorithm
automatically finds the sentiment or
the polarity of individual words,
it doesn't do well with phrases,
and we'd like Often to get
phrases as well as words.
So the Turney algorithm is
another way to bootstrap in
a semi-supervised way lexicon.
And what this does is extract a bunch of
phrases from reviews, learn the polarity
of the reviews, and then take all
the phrases that occur in a review,
take their average polarity, and
use that to rate the review.
So, let's look at these stages
in the Turney Algorithm.
First, we're going to extract
every two word phrase that
has a particular set
of part of speech tag.
And, we haven't talked about
parts of speech yet, but, so,
this is adject to the tag for adjectives.
So if the first word is an adjective and
the second word,
this means noun and
this means plural noun.
So if the first word is an adjective,
so an adjective followed by a noun or
a plural noun will extract that phrase,
whatever the third word is.
Or the first word is an adverb RB
means adverb and the second word is
an adjective, and the last word is not
a noun we'll extract that phrase so
adverb adjective, adjective adjective,
noun adjective Adverb verb.
So these are particular phrases.
So we're going to run our
part of speech tagger.
I'll talk about that in a few lectures.
And assign for each word a part of speech,
adjective, noun, and so on.
And then we'll extract two word
phrases that meet these criterion.
The first word is this tag,
the second word is this tag.
The third word has some constraints so
we don't extract it.
And now we look at all those phrases.
And our goal is, for each of those phrases
we've extracted to measure its polarity.
So how positive or
negative is a particular phrase?
And the intuition of the Tourney Algorithm
is just like the Hatzivassiloglou and
McKeown algorithm to
think about co-occurance.
So we ask, well a phrase is
positive if it co-occurs a lot,
nearby on the web or some large corpus,
with the word excellent.
A negative phrase is likely to co-occur
more often with a word like poor.
So how are we measure this co-occurance?
The standard way to measure this
kind of co-occurance is with
pointwise mutual information.
Pointwise Mutual Information.
And that's a variant of a standard
information theoretic measure called
mutual information.
The mutual information between two
random variables is the sum over
all the values the two variables can take
of the joint probability of the two,
times the log of the joined,
over the individual probabilities.
So, pointwise mutual information
takes this intuition for
mutual information and just asks a very
simple, computes a very simple ratio.
The probability of two events, x and y,
divided by the product of
the individual probabilities.
So, what Pointwise mutual information
is asking, it's a ratio, is,
"How much more do events x and y co-occur
than if they were independent?" If they
were independent they would have these
independent multiplied probabilities.
And how much does the joint occur more
often than we'd expect from independents?
That's the intuition of
pointwise mutual information.
So looking at pointwise
mutual information,
I've just repeated the equation here.
We can look at it between two words.
We say how much more do these
two words word one and word two,
co-occur than if they were
independent by taking the ratio,
the probability of the two words occurring
together, divided by the probability
of each word separately and multiply,
and we take the log of that.
How do we estimate this?
Well, the way Turney did it originally
is by using the Altavista search engine.
And we're going to estimate
the probability of a word just by
how many hits we see for that word.
And we're going to estimate
the probability of two words by how often
word1 occurs near word2.
So Altavista has the near operator,
that lets us check if a word
is near another word.
And in each case we're going to want to
normalize to get a real probability from
these counts.
And by our definition from the previous
slide, Pointwise Mutual Information,
it's the probability of the joint.
So that's hits of word one
near word two over n squared,
divided by hits of word one over n and
hits of word two over n,
and these n's are going to cancel, and
we end up simply with this equation.
So, how many times do the words
occur near each other,
and how many times do they occur
individually, and multiply together.
So once we have a measure
of concurrence of
how much a phrase concurs with another
word, we can add the term in its polarity.
So in the equation for
polarity in the algorithm is just,
how much is the information in any phrase
like the word excellent we subtract it's
mutual information with phrase poor.
So how much more does the phrase appear
with excellent than poor or vice versa.
And just doing a little algebra.
Here’s the definition of points mutual
information of a phrase with excellent,
how often it occurs near
the word excellent divided by
the individual number of hits of
the phrase itself in excellent and
then subtract the same thing for poor,
and of course by the definition of logs,
we can bring things inside the log and
turn the minus into a divide,
and then we can do some
messing with terms.
So we have hits of phrase here,
and we have hit of phrase there.
And so, in the end, we can get our formula
for deciding the polarity of a phrase.
It's just how many times does
the phrase occur near excellent,
times how many times it occurs with,
the word poor, of course over,
how many times the phrase occurs near poor
over how many times excellent occurs.
These are constants that we can get once,
and then for
each phrase we can compute
these two quantities.
And using the Tourney Algorithm, here's
a positive review, obviously of a bank.
And so here's a phrase like online
service, adjective noun phrase.
And here's the polarity assigned by it,
2.8.
Here's another one direct deposit, 1.3.
Here's some negative phrases
with negative polarity, so
the phrases occur more often near the word
poor than near the word excellent.
So inconveniently located
has a negative polarity.
On average though,
just showing you a subset,
more of the positive phrases occur in this
review than in the negative phrases And
the average polarity is positive.
So, this is a thumbs-up review.
A thumbs-down review, you can see
that phrases like virtual monopoly,
negative polarity,
lesser evil, negative polarity.
Other problems, negative polarity
all occur more frequently and
on average have a more negative
polarity than the positive polarity
words that occur in this review and
we end up with a review that has
an average negative polarity.
So the Turney Algorithm with evaluated
on various kinds of review sites and
does a better job than just
the majority class baseline
predicting the polarity of a review.
So what's important about the Turney
Algorithm is that it lets us look at
phrases, learn phrases
rather than just words.
And what's true about in general about
these unsupervised algorithms is we can
learn domain-specific information that
might not be in some online dictionary.
So if I go back to the previous slide,
if we're doing banking a word
like direct deposit or
virtual monopoly simply might not be in an
online polarity dictionary or online web.
So we need to use some of these
semi supervised algorithms for
learning The polarity
of these kind of words.
Finally, I'll mention briefly a third
algorithm for learning polarity and
this uses WordNet.
Again that's the online thesaurus that
we'll talk about in detail later.
And the intuition of using these
online thesaurus' is similar to
what we've seen in the first
two semi supervised algorithm.
We’ll start with a positive seed set and
a negative seed set, so when I
have words like good in the positive seed
set and terrible in the negative seed set.
And now we use the thesaurus just very
simply to find synonyms and antonyms.
So we add synonyms of
positive words like well and
antonyms of negative words
to the positive set.
And to the negative set, which we
started out with words like terrible,
now we add synonyms of all of those words.
So maybe awful is a synonym of terrible,
and
antonyms of our positive words to
the negative set and we just repeat.
And the sets grow as we keep adding
synonyms and antonyms to it.
And then each of the algorithms
that make use of WordNet for
learning clarity will have various
ways of filtering out bad examples or
problems with word sentences and
things like that.
So in summary, learning lexicons can help
us deal with domain specific issues.
In banking,
we might have a word like direct deposit.
That's just not going to be
a standard online polarity lexicon.
And we can be more robust in
general as new names are, people
start using new names or new company name
that might not be in some training data.
But we might be able to learn it from the
way I prefer, the data we are looking at.
And again, intuition of all these
algorithms is really the same.
We start with some seed set, we find other
words that have similar polarity to that
seed set in some semi-automatic way.
And the ways you've seen are using what
other words are conjoined with and
or but, using words that just occur
nearby to words like poor or excellent.
That's our received set there, or
using WordNet synonyms or antonyms.